ASSIGNMENT 1

1. In the below elements which of them are values or an expression? eg:- values can be
integer or string and expressions will be mathematical operators.
* “Hello” -87.8
-
/
+
6
- Expression - Value
- Value
- Expression - Expression - Expression - Value

2. What is the difference between string and variable?
The difference between string and variable is :
String - is the information which is stored in the variable. It is a data type for a a
sequence of characters. Eg. “Dilpreet”
Variable - are the containers , it stores the information. It is a name that refer to any value. Eg. Name
Strings are data, so we can use them to fill up a variable. Name = “Dilpreet”

3. Describe three different data types.
Three different data types are :
1. Numeric Data type - It represent numerical value like integers, floats and
complex numbers.
2. Sequence Data type - Sequence is the ordered collection of similar or
different data types like String
List
Tuple
3. Mapping Data type- Dictionary is the unordered collection of data types which holds key and value pairs. Eg. Dict = {1: 'English', '2': 'Hindi', 3: 'Maths'}


4. What is an expression made up of? What do all expressions do?
An expression is made up of operators and operands.
 The expression in Python produces some value or result after being
 interpreted by the Python interpreter.
 Eg. y = y * 5 + 20
 
 
5. This assignment statements, like spam = 10. What is the difference between
an expression and a statement?
Statements are anything which makes up a line or several lines, it does not
yield a return value or result unlike expressions which are an instruction to be
executed or interpreted or evaluates.


 6. After running the following code, what does the variable bacon
 contain?
 bacon = 22
 bacon + 1
After running the code bacon contains 23


 7. What should the values of the following two terms be?
 ‘spam’ + ‘spamspam’
 Output : 'spamspamspam'
 “Spam” * 3
 Output : 'spamspamspam'
 
 
 8. Why is eggs a valid variable name while 100 is invalid?
eggs a valid variable name while 100 is invalid because there are certain
 conditions while declaring a variable in python so
 Variable name cannot start with a number.
 
 
 9. What three functions can be used to get the integer, floating-point
 number, or string
 version of a value?
The int(), float(), and str() functions will evaluate to the integer, floating-point number, and string versions of the value passed to them.


10. Why does this expression cause an error? How can you fix it?
“I have eaten” + 99 + “burritos.”
The expression will give an error because string value cannot concatenate with integer and 99 is an integer value.
The correct way can be
“I have eaten” + “99” + “burritos.”
“I have eaten” + str(99) + “burritos.”
